Version 1.0.0
=============

** date **

The release v1.0.0 contains a new structure of classes to apply Jai that aim at a more accessible and intuitive way of using the SDK for both new and experienced users.

Our goal is to make Jai a great framework to build, consume and maintain models, and we hope this release is the next step to shorten the learning curve.


Highlights
----------
- Authentication
  
The authentication mode has changed. Before, it was possible to authenticate using your authentication key when instantiating the Jai class. 
We removed this feature because we consider writing the auth key on your scripts a lousy practice.

Using an environment variable with your auth key or setting it on `os.environ`. We improved this feature with the usage of `python-decouple.` 
You can also set the auth key using a :file:`.env` file or a :file:`.ini` file.

Bellow an example of the content of a :file:`settings.ini` file:

.. code-block:: text

    [settings]
    JAI_AUTH=xXxxxXXxXXxXXxXXxXXxXXxXXxxx

Bellow an example of the content of a :file:`.env` file:

.. code-block:: text

    JAI_AUTH="xXxxxXXxXXxXXxXXxXXxXXxXXxxx"

The default for the environment variable with the auth key has changed from "JAI_SECRET." 
Using the authentication key is expected to be on the "JAI_AUTH" environment variable.

.. note::
    Use the parameter `var_env` to change the environment variable name with the auth key value. 

- Safe mode
  
Most classes now have a `safe_mode` parameter on initialization. When you set this parameter to `True,` the SDK validates if the responses for most requests to the API follow the expected structure.

The response check happens on the client-side, meaning that the SDK will raise an error if any API changes happen.
If an error occurs, it probably means that your current version has become incompatible with the current API version. 
We advise updating it to a newer version. If the problem is persistent and you are on the latest SDK version, please open an issue so we can work on a fix. 

.. note::
   Safe mode is not a solution to avoid errors, but we hope this will save you hours of debugging time. 
   Although we try our best to keep the API stable, some changes will eventually improve its functionality and performance.

Backward Incompatible Change
----------------------------

- Can't use the `auth_key` parameter on initialization of Jai class.
- Can't use the `var_env` parameter to change the environment variable name that contains the auth key value (changed to `env_var`).
- Changed headers attribute name to `.headers.`
- Changed the `.status` property. Now it's a method.

New Features
------------

- Restructure of Jai class
  
We split the Jai class methods into Task classes. 

- check_parameters method
  
Added a new method to validate parameters for setup. This method is useful to validate how the parameters are interpreted by the API without starting a new setup.

- Filter declaration
  
The setup with filters has changed. Now you define the filter column on the setup method as a feature.

- Linear Models
  
Added a new group of methods to train and consume linear models.

- Recommendation System setup
  
Added the setup of Recommendation System databases.

Improvements
--------------
- Changed code formatter to `black.` 
- New function `print_args`.

Documentation
----------------
Added documentation for the new features.